Okay, pictures up quite on the set, please
It was a tremendous privilege to have a part in the production of the protocol returns
None of us are professional actors, so needless to say was a bit intimidating when it came time for lights camera
Inaction, but with the kind help of the brothers and sisters and they're coaching us in a kind and patient way
We were able to get into the role of our characters, which brings us to our cast and we'd like to get a few comments from each of them
Michael, we'd like to start with you. What are your observations?
Well, I got admitted it was kind of embarrassing playing bad news
Oh, you know I had to say and do these despicable things nothing that I would do in real life of course and
The thing that made Al especially bad is that he was a not a non-witness who's trying to leave David astray, but
He was a Christian who chose to turn his back on everything he knew
So I kind of had this fear that people would view me differently because I had to play that character
But then a brother reminded me first Kings chapter 22
We're touched about how an angel of Jehovah had to play a deceptive spirit
And he used that the full king a heb and entitled everybody a lesson. So Jehovah approves that
What warning does the Al character make for us to benefit from?
Scripture that comes to mind is first Timothy 524
We're talked about how some men sins are manifest later
So I'll just like Judas started off as a worshiper of Jehovah, but his spirituality deteriorates over time
So you know in the congregation today you can have somebody who starts off all right
But they begin to live a double life their spirituality deteriorates and then they themselves become bad association
That's why it's really important that we watch our associations also within the congregation
Thank you very valid point
Hannah and Bethany how about you?
Well
Sometimes I think on the surface it can be
The little hard to differentiate between a witness and a non-witness for example in the movie the characters that
Bethany and I played
They were fun they were friendly they were hardworking so and even their dress they were dressed really neatly and modestly
So at first glance
Maybe you could even see them fitting in really well in the congregation the kingdom hall
But um because of that it could be really easy to let your guard down with co-workers that kind of have that type of
Appearance but in the end because they don't serve Jehovah. They don't love Jehovah
They don't uphold his high righteous moral
standards and then
Really they didn't have David's best interests at heart
Yeah, it's very true. You know if we're at work we see co-workers dressing in modestly or they have very
Obviously attitudes lifestyle speech as a Christian our conscience would probably quickly dismiss them as bad association
And also we wouldn't be attracted to spend more time with them
But if on the surface they're dressing nicely they have a nice personality
They seem like good people reminding us even of people in the congregation
Then that's where the danger is we saw even with David and Taylor
Association just slowly crept up on him and so the more time that they spent together
They're more the thought their thoughts and their emotions got involved and that's what led to the trouble
But that David got into and so it just shows how careful we have to be and keeping close to Jehovah's love and also shows the subtleties of Satan's trap
Good point nice people are bad association if they don't live by Bible principles
Andrew what lesson can we learn from the older brother of the parable
Both the brothers had their flaws. We naturally see the protocol that way
After all he squandered his inheritance. He didn't care about spirituality for a time
But the older brother was flawed to the other extreme
He was doing everything right, but he allowed himself to come self-righteous and that's not good
And both the parable and in the video he didn't respond properly to his brother's sincere repentance
He wasn't merciful. He was rigid
And it's that sort of quality that led to him having that that heated argument in the garage
It caused him just to pride away at his brother when he came home late until he just snapped in the living room
So it shows the importance of really monitoring these invisible qualities that we might have even though we might be doing everything right at the time
Good lesson for all of us
Casey any subtleties you picked up on in the video?
Well, I actually thought that Hannah and Bethany brought out a good point
Sometimes we may hear a witness youth reason that their associates or non-witness co-workers
Are more fun or no worse than same members in the congregation
But the way they act doesn't necessarily reflect their their true morals and standards
So that association can be very dangerous
In the parable the prodigal he squandered his inheritance
He he got involved with prostitutes and he even went so far as to eat pig food
To survive really every aspect of of his life was affected and it spiraled downward
And the same can be said with David in the video
I mean we saw how his whole disposition changed the way he treated his family
He didn't uphold his moral standards and even in the little details in his life at home
We saw him hanging up his shirt his room was neat
But when he moved out he even lost that that good habit of cleanliness
So his association it really affected every aspect of his life
Anything else about his character?
I thought it was interesting that
After he spent all of his money he lost his job he wrecked his car he ended up in jail
That instead of going home and seeking the support of his loving family
That he turned to a non-witness co-worker and that's what really got him into trouble
And it was only after he seriously transgressed God's law that then his conscience plagued him and
And he returned to the support of his family
So for me it just showed me the importance of of seeking that out first
That's really an arrangement that Jehovah has put in place for us and to seek the support of that
How did the role of David affect you personally?
Well for me it
It impressed upon me the futility of succumbing to worldly influences
And really the hurt that it can cause to all involved
Even if the person does come back it really can be very damaging to a family
So my hope is that anyone that watches this video
And maybe heading in the wrong direction away from Jehovah
We'll be able to turn around and head back to Jehovah and really embrace the love and mercy that that he is put forth for us
Thank you for those insights
Joanne or lovingly known as mom how about you?
Truthfully I'm not a mom
My husband Randy and I served in the traveling work for 20 years
And for the past three years have been serving here at Bethel
So I teasingly say that I had to come to Bethel to get a house and kids
But seriously
Acting as the mom
It made me think deeply about all the different emotions that a parent must feel
When there's conflict in the home and especially when a child decides to leave Jehovah and the truth
In this case the family
The parents were doing everything they could
And still there were problems which led to so much anxiety and heart-wrenching emotional pain
I really respect parents in the congregation
That continue to stay loyal to Jehovah and maintain their spiritual routine
Especially when a child decides to
Behave badly or make wrong choices
It's really the close relationship that parents have with Jehovah that's going to get them through it
That is a good point and I really appreciate the way the script was written on that as well because
The father was so concerned about his boys
We had to maintain reasonableness and balance while not condoning the bad behavior or poor choices that were being made
We saw him
Admonishing David we saw him
consoling his wife
And also commending and reassuring his son James
Which we need to remember to commend Christian fathers when they find themselves in such a
Challenge because they have to maintain their composure their good judgment and their fairness even though things aren't working out the way they think they should
Truly, I think no matter what a family member does to disappoint us at times
We should remember the key texts at Nehemiah chapter 8 verse 10 which says
The joy of Jehovah is our stronghold
To any who are faltering spiritually or strained from the truth
We'd like to leave you with this text found at first Peter chapter 2 verse 25
Please
Return to the shepherd and overseer of your souls